.github/steps/1-step.md, before:

## Step 1: Setup AI-Powered Action Foundation

Your development team wants to add intelligence to your joke-handling action. The first step is setting up the foundation to connect with GitHub Models and prepare your action for AI integration.

### ⌨️ Activity: Set up your development environment

Let's use **GitHub Codespaces** to set up a cloud-based development environment and work in it for the remainder of the exercise!

1. Right-click the below button to open the **Create Codespace** page in a new tab. Use the default configuration.

   [![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/{{full_repo_name}}?quickstart=1)

1. Confirm the **Repository** field is your copy of the exercise, not the original, then click the green **Create Codespace** button.

   - ✅ Your copy: `/{{full_repo_name}}`
   - ❌ Original: `/skills/create-ai-powered-actions`

1. Wait a moment for Visual Studio Code to load in your browser.

1. Verify that **Node.js** is available by opening a terminal and running:

   ```sh
   node --version
   npm --version
   ```

   <details>
   <summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

   - Make sure you selected your personal copy of the repository, not the original template.
   - If the Codespace fails to start, try refreshing the page and creating a new one.
   - Node.js and npm should be pre-installed in the development environment.

   </details>


### ⌨️ Activity: Install OpenAI SDK

Now that your Codespace is ready, let's install the OpenAI SDK, which you'll use to interact with GitHub Models.

1. Open the terminal in your Codespace.
1. Run the following command to install the OpenAI SDK:

   ```sh
   npm install openai
   ```

1. Verify the installation by checking the `package.json` file for the `openai` dependency.


### ⌨️ Activity: Create Metadata File

Let's create the GitHub Action metadata file at the repository root level.

1. Create `action.yml` file at the repository root and define the action metadata as shown below.

    <!-- TODO: Describe the action metadata file option present below -->

    ```yml
    name: "Rate Joke Action"
    description: "Rates a joke using GitHub Models"

    inputs:
      joke:
        description: "The joke to be rated"
        required: true
      token:
        description: "Personal access token to be used for GitHub Models API call"
        default: {% raw %}${{ github.token }}{% endraw %}

    outputs:
      result:
        description: "AI-generated joke evaluation"

    runs:
      using: node24
      main: dist/index.js
    ```

1. Commit and push the changes to the `main` branch.
1. With the changes pushed to GitHub, Mona will check your work and share the next steps.

Commit message:

step-updates
Updated the title and content of Step 1 to focus on setting up an AI-powered action for rating jokes.

.github/steps/1-step.md, after:

## Step 1: Setup the action to rate your jokes!

Your development team wants to add intelligence to your joke-handling action. The first step is setting up the foundation to connect with GitHub Models and prepare your action for AI integration.


<img width="600" alt="two octocat share a science pun" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6ea16f47-5cf8-4448-9e4d-04283072822c" />


### ⌨️ Activity: Set up your development environment

Let's use **GitHub Codespaces** to set up a cloud-based development environment and work in it for the remainder of the exercise!

1. Right-click the below button to open the **Create Codespace** page in a new tab. Use the default configuration.

   [![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/{{full_repo_name}}?quickstart=1)

1. Confirm the **Repository** field is your copy of the exercise, not the original, then click the green **Create Codespace** button.

   - ✅ Your copy: `/{{full_repo_name}}`
   - ❌ Original: `/skills/create-ai-powered-actions`

1. Wait a moment for Visual Studio Code to load in your browser.

1. Verify that **Node.js** is available by opening a terminal and running:

   ```sh
   node --version
   npm --version
   ```

   <details>
   <summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

   - Make sure you selected your personal copy of the repository, not the original template.
   - If the Codespace fails to start, try refreshing the page and creating a new one.
   - Node.js and npm should be pre-installed in the development environment.

   </details>


### ⌨️ Activity: Install OpenAI SDK

Now that your Codespace is ready, let's install the OpenAI SDK, which you'll use to interact with GitHub Models.

1. Open the terminal in your Codespace.
1. Run the following command to install the OpenAI SDK:

   ```sh
   npm install openai
   ```

1. Verify the installation by checking the `package.json` file for the `openai` dependency.


### ⌨️ Activity: Create Metadata File

Let's create the GitHub Action metadata file at the repository root level.

1. Create `action.yml` file at the repository root and define the action metadata as shown below.

    <!-- TODO: Describe the action metadata file option present below -->

    ```yml
    name: "Rate Joke Action"
    description: "Rates a joke using GitHub Models"

    inputs:
      joke:
        description: "The joke to be rated"
        required: true
      token:
        description: "Personal access token to be used for GitHub Models API call"
        default: {% raw %}${{ github.token }}{% endraw %}

    outputs:
      result:
        description: "AI-generated joke evaluation"

    runs:
      using: node24
      main: dist/index.js
    ```

1. Commit and push the changes to the `main` branch.
1. With the changes pushed to GitHub, Mona will check your work and share the next steps.
