.github/steps/3-step.md, before:

## Step 3: Create Workflow to test your Action

Let's pause for a moment with the code changes and set up a workflow to test your action in a real GitHub Actions environment.

Let's create a workflow that will trigger your action whenever a new comment is added to an issue. Your action will analyze the joke in the comment and we will use that result to update the comment with the AI-generated rating.

### 📖 Theory: Granting access to GitHub Models

The built in `{% raw %}${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}{% endraw %}` token used in GitHub Actions workflows does not have access to GitHub's AI models by default.

To enable your workflow to use these models, you need to explicitly grant the `models: read` permission in your workflow file.

> [!NOTE]
> For a complete list of available `GITHUB_TOKEN` permissions and guidance on configuring them, see the [workflow permissions reference](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflows-and-actions/workflow-syntax#permissions).

### ⌨️ Activity: Author Workflow

Let's see your Rate Jokes action in action by creating a workflow that uses it!

1. Create a new GitHub Actions workflow file with the following name

   ```txt
   .github/workflows/rate-joke.yml
   ```

1. Let's define the workflow to trigger on new issue comments and set the required permissions:

   ```yaml
   name: Rate Joke
   run-name: {% raw %}Rate Joke by ${{ github.event.comment.user.login }}{% endraw %}

   on:
     issue_comment:
       types: [created]

   permissions:
     issues: write
     contents: read
     models: read


   ```

1. Now let's add a job to run your action and update the comment with the AI joke analysis.

   Add the following step to your workflow:

   ```yaml

   jobs:
     joke:
       name: Rate Joke
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - uses: actions/checkout@v6
         - name: Rate Joke
           id: rate-joke
           uses: ./
           with:
             joke: {% raw %}${{ github.event.comment.body }}{% endraw %}
             token: {% raw %}${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}{% endraw %}
         - name: Update comment
           uses: peter-evans/create-or-update-comment@v5
           with:
             comment-id: {% raw %}${{ github.event.comment.id }}{% endraw %}
             reactions: laugh
             edit-mode: replace
             body: |
               ## 🤖 AI Joke Rating Results

               **Your joke:**
               > {% raw %}${{ github.event.comment.body }}{% endraw %}

               **AI Analysis:**
               {% raw %}${{ steps.rate-joke.outputs.result }}{% endraw %}
   ```

   First, we call your action with the comment body as input; then we update the original issue comment in place using `peter-evans/create-or-update-comment`, inserting the AI rating generated by your action.

   > ❗️ **Important:** Ensure the indentation is correct in your YAML file.

1. Commit and push the workflow file to the `main` branch:

   ```sh
   git add .github/workflows/rate-joke.yml
   git commit -m "Add workflow to test rate joke action"
   git push
   ```

### ⌨️ Activity: Test Workflow with Real Comments

Let's try testing the workflow by commenting right here, on the issue!

1. Post a comment containing a joke to trigger the workflow.

   Example:

   ```md
   Why did the scarecrow win an award? Because he was outstanding in his field!
   ```

   After a moment, you should see the comment you added get updated.

   You can also monitor the Actions tab of your repository to see the workflow run and check for any errors.

1. (optional) Post a comment without a joke to test how your action will handle non-joke comments.

   Example:

   ```md
   I love learning about GitHub Actions!
   ```

1. With the comment added, Mona should share the next steps!

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

If the workflow doesn't trigger or complete successfully, please check the following:

- See for any errors in the Actions tab of your repository.
- Ensure that you have ran `npm run build` on the latest code changes.
- Make sure the workflow file is correctly formatted
- If you are encountering rate limiting issues, please wait a few minutes and try again.
  - If you have hit daily limits, you may have to come back to this exercise tomorrow.

</details>

Commit message:

Mention using action in other repository

.github/steps/3-step.md, after:

## Step 3: Create Workflow to test your Action

Let's pause for a moment with the code changes and set up a workflow to test your action in a real GitHub Actions environment.

Let's create a workflow that will trigger your action whenever a new comment is added to an issue. Your action will analyze the joke in the comment and we will use that result to update the comment with the AI-generated rating.

### 📖 Theory: Granting access to GitHub Models

The built in `{% raw %}${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}{% endraw %}` token used in GitHub Actions workflows does not have access to GitHub's AI models by default.

To enable your workflow to use these models, you need to explicitly grant the `models: read` permission in your workflow file.

> [!NOTE]
> For a complete list of available `GITHUB_TOKEN` permissions and guidance on configuring them, see the [workflow permissions reference](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflows-and-actions/workflow-syntax#permissions).

### ⌨️ Activity: Author Workflow

Let's see your Rate Jokes action in action by creating a workflow that uses it!

1. Create a new GitHub Actions workflow file with the following name

   ```txt
   .github/workflows/rate-joke.yml
   ```

   > 🪧 Note: For learning purposes, we create the workflow in the same repository as your action. However, you would typically consume your published action from another project/repository.

1. Let's define the workflow to trigger on new issue comments and set the required permissions:

   ```yaml
   name: Rate Joke
   run-name: {% raw %}Rate Joke by ${{ github.event.comment.user.login }}{% endraw %}

   on:
     issue_comment:
       types: [created]

   permissions:
     issues: write
     contents: read
     models: read
     
   ```

1. Now let's add a job to run your action and update the comment with the AI joke analysis.

   Add the following step to your workflow:

   ```yaml
   jobs:
     joke:
       name: Rate Joke
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - uses: actions/checkout@v6
         - name: Rate Joke
           id: rate-joke
           uses: ./
           with:
             joke: {% raw %}${{ github.event.comment.body }}{% endraw %}
             token: {% raw %}${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}{% endraw %}
         - name: Update comment
           uses: peter-evans/create-or-update-comment@v5
           with:
             comment-id: {% raw %}${{ github.event.comment.id }}{% endraw %}
             reactions: laugh
             edit-mode: replace
             body: |
               ## 🤖 AI Joke Rating Results

               **Your joke:**
               > {% raw %}${{ github.event.comment.body }}{% endraw %}

               **AI Analysis:**
               {% raw %}${{ steps.rate-joke.outputs.result }}{% endraw %}
   ```

   First, we call your action with the comment body as input; then we update the original issue comment in place using `peter-evans/create-or-update-comment`, inserting the AI rating generated by your action.

   > ❗️ **Important:** Ensure the indentation is correct in your YAML file.

1. Commit and push the workflow file to the `main` branch:

   ```sh
   git add .github/workflows/rate-joke.yml
   git commit -m "Add workflow to test rate joke action"
   git push
   ```

### ⌨️ Activity: Test Workflow with Real Comments

Let's try testing the workflow by commenting right here, on the issue!

1. Post a comment containing a joke to trigger the workflow.

   Example:

   ```md
   Why did the scarecrow win an award? Because he was outstanding in his field!
   ```

   After a moment, you should see the comment you added get updated.

   You can also monitor the Actions tab of your repository to see the workflow run and check for any errors.

1. (optional) Post a comment without a joke to test how your action will handle non-joke comments.

   Example:

   ```md
   I love learning about GitHub Actions!
   ```

1. With the comment added, Mona should share the next steps!

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

If the workflow doesn't trigger or complete successfully, please check the following:

- See for any errors in the Actions tab of your repository.
- Ensure that you have ran `npm run build` on the latest code changes.
- Make sure the workflow file is correctly formatted
- If you are encountering rate limiting issues, please wait a few minutes and try again.
  - If you have hit daily limits, you may have to come back to this exercise tomorrow.

</details>
