.github/steps/5-step.md, before:

## Step 5: Final Testing and Validation

Your AI-powered action is complete! Now you need to put it through its paces with comprehensive testing to ensure it works reliably across different scenarios and edge cases.

### 📖 Theory: Production Testing for AI-Powered Actions

**Production Testing** for AI-powered actions requires:

- **Rate limit handling**: Ensuring graceful degradation when API limits are hit
- **Input validation**: Protecting against malicious or malformed input data
- **Error recovery**: Providing meaningful feedback when AI services are unavailable
- **Performance monitoring**: Tracking response times and success rates

For more information, see:

- [GitHub Actions - Monitoring and troubleshooting](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/monitoring-and-troubleshooting-workflows)
- [GitHub Models - Rate limits](https://docs.github.com/en/github-models/prototyping-with-ai-models#rate-limits)

### ⌨️ Activity: Comprehensive Workflow Testing

1. Test workflow with multiple rapid comments to verify rate limit handling
1. Submit various types of content (jokes, questions, spam) to validate filtering
1. Test with extremely long comments to verify token limit handling
1. Verify workflow permissions and security boundaries

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

- Monitor the Actions tab during testing to see real-time execution logs
- Test edge cases like empty comments, very long text, and special characters
- Verify that rate limiting doesn't crash your action but provides helpful error messages
- Make sure your action works consistently across different types of repositories

</details>

Commit message:

chore: update steps and workflows for AI-powered action integration

.github/steps/5-step.md, after:

## Step 5: Trigger & Validate

Awesome! :rocket: You've created the Rate Jokes GitHub Action, leveraged structured outputs and authored a workflow to use it.

The only thing left to do is test it out!

### ⌨️ Activity: Try out your action

1. Create a comment in this issue (or create a new issue).

1. Comment with jokes you'd like the AI to rate. You can find example jokes on the [icanhazdadjoke](https://icanhazdadjoke.com/) website.
1. Comment with regular comments and monitor that they are ignored by the workflow.

1. Monitor the **Actions** tab for the `Joke Action` workflow to complete:

   <img width="400" alt="SCR-20251113-kntg" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/992da295-0123-4688-a068-d289967f2455" />


1. Mona will post the exercise review once your new Dad Joke workflow completes **successfully**! 

   <details>
   <summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

   If the workflow doesn't trigger or fails:
   - Check the Actions tab for error messages
   - Verify that your `dist/index.js` file exists and was committed
   - If you did any updates to your source code, ensure you re-bundled with `npm run build` and pushed the changes
   - Ensure your workflow file is correctly formatted
   </details>
